---
title: "Windows Search cheat sheet"
date: 2013-09-27
categories: 
  - "tips-and-tricks"
---

http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows7/advanced-tips-for-searching-in-windows Example search term ? Use this to find? Example search term System.FileName:~<"notes" ?Use this to find Files whose names begin with "notes." The ~< means "begins with." ? Example search term System.FileName:="quarterly report" ?Use this to find Files named "quarterly report." The = means "matches exactly." ? Example search term System.FileName:~="pro" ?Use this to find Files whose names contain the word "pro" or the characters pro as part of another word (such as "process" or "procedure"). The ~= means "contains." ? Example search term System.Kind:<>picture ?Use this to find Files that aren't pictures. The <> means "is not." ? Example search term System.DateModified:05/25/2010 ?Use this to find Files that were modified on that date. You can also type "System.DateModified:2010" to find files changed at any time during that year. ? Example search term System.Author:~!"herb" ?Use this to find Files whose authors don't have "herb" in their name. The ~! means "doesn't contain." ? Example search term System.Keywords:"sunset" ?Use this to find Files that are tagged with the word sunset. ? Example search term System.Size:<1mb ?Use this to find Files that are less than 1 MB in size. ? Example search term System.Size:>1mb ?Use this to find Files that are more than 1 MB in size. ? Example search term ? Use this to find? Example search term System.Author:Charlie AND Herb ?Use this to find Files that are authored by Charlie as well as any files that include Herb in the file name or in any file property. ? Example search term System.Author:Charlie AND System.DateModified:>2009 ?Use this to find Find only files that are authored by Charlie after 2009. ? Example search term System.Author:(Charl\* AND Herb) ?Use this to find Files that have either Charles and Herb or Charlie and Herb listed as authors. ? Example search term System.Author:"Charlie Herb" ?Use this to find Files that are authored by someone with exactly this name. ?

  Manage indexing options (add, remove search locations and file extensions): To add/remove/edit search locations: Start-> Control Panel -> Indexing Options ->Modify; To add/remove file extensions: Start-> Control Panel -> Indexing Options ->Advanced->File Types.

Search Filters AND Finds files that contain one word and another. Ex.: cat AND mouse NOT Find files that contain one word, but not the other. Ex.: cat NOT mouse OR Find files that contain either of the words. Ex.: cat OR mouse Quotes Find files that contain the exact phrase. Ex.: ?at mouse??> Find files that are more than or later than a certain value. Ex.: date: >01/05/12 < Find files that are less than or earlier than a certain value. Ex.: size: <100MB \* Find all files with a certain extension. Ex.: \*.docx - Exclude items. Ex.: linkin park -jay-z (space before the excluded item is important) store: Limit search to a specific folder location or data store. Ex.: store:dropbox, store:outlook kind: Limit search to a specific type. Ex.: kind:docs, kind:email, kind:video name: Find a file by its name. Ex.: name:?akeuseof??date: Search items based on dates. Ex.: date:today, date:past year datemodified: Search for file based on the modified date. Ex.: datemodified:01/05/2012 datetaken: Searches for photos captured on a particular date: Ex.: datetaken: 01/05/2012 datecreated: Searches for a file created on a particular date. Ex.: datecreated: 01/05/2012 deleted: Search for deleted files in Recycle bin. Ex.: deleted:image.jpg ext: Search for files of a specific extension. Ex.: ext:jpg, ext:mp3, ext:pdf authors: Find files based on the username of the person who created it. Ex.: Authors:john artist: Find songs by artist. Ex.: artist:JayZ genre: Find songs by genre. Ex.: Genre:rap album: Find a particular album. Ex.: album:?lueprint??year: Find songs by release year. Ex.: year:2012 track: Find song by its track number. Ex.: track:12 orientation: Find an image by its visual orientation. Ex.: orientation:portrait height: Filter images by height. Ex.: Height:1024 width: Filter images by width. Ex.: Width:800 size: Search for a file of a specific size or range of size. Ex.: Size:=1mb..16mb, size:medium Note: you can use multiple filters at the same time. Natural Language Search Example: email last week from John. To turn on natural language search: Start-> Control Panel-> Appearance and Personalization->Folder Options-> Search tab. Select the Use natural language search check box.
